Over 2,700 years ago, Jehovah God inspired the faithful man, Isaiah, to utter a prophecy
that you and I are seeing fulfilled before our eyes.
It's found in Isaiah chapter 60.
I invite you to turn there with me.
Isaiah 60, and let's read together verse 22.
That verse says, the little one will become a thousand, and the small one, a mighty nation,
I myself Jehovah will speed it up in its own time, like passengers in a car that is increasing
in speed.
Do you sense the momentum of what Jehovah's organization is doing today?
Jehovah is accomplishing a tremendous work worldwide and all in connection with the
kingdom preaching work.
And in the face of satanic attack and the wickedness of the last days, what Jehovah
is accomplishing truly glorifies His name.
But because so much work is being done, there is a need for more workers to keep up with
this work.
And in this talk, we're specifically going to talk about the needs at Bethel and in theocratic
construction.
Well, what is the need?
In Bethel, we have a constant need for spiritually qualified men and women who can help carry
the load of the ever-increasing and complex work.
And there is a particular need for young brothers who can apply to come to Bethel and be trained
and in time qualified to serve as overseers or to take the lead in departments such as
the service department or public information department, hospital information department
and many others.
We need brothers who can, in time, qualify to serve on branch committees.
And even in branches where the Bethel family is small, we need young brothers to apply.
Because the brothers and sisters who have been carrying the load for years, we love them,
but they're getting older.
And they have a zeal for the work, but they recognize the need to train others so
that Jehovah's work can continue.
And what about theocratic construction?
Well, there too, there continues to be a need for spiritually qualified men and women
who can help carry the tremendous amount of work that is taking place on facility construction
worldwide.
And there too, we need spiritually qualified men who can be trained in time to take the
lead as trade overseers to serve as construction committee members and care for other assignments.
And how much work is there to do in theocratic construction?
Just to give you a glimpse, consider some of the needs for kingdom halls in a few countries
in Africa.
Congo reports a deficit of nearly 1900 new kingdom halls.
Zambia reports a need for over 900 new kingdom halls.
Mozambique and Angola each have a need for almost 500 kingdom halls.
And in Nigeria, they have on their books a need for 2,000 renovations of kingdom halls
in addition to the new ones that they need.
And that's not to mention all the work taking place, and major branch construction, the
construction of remote translation offices, school facilities, Zambia halls, and more.
Is there a need?
Absolutely.
Young ones, especially you young ones in your teens, thinking about how you will use your
life, can you get involved in the Bethel work and theocratic construction work?
Should you?
If you do, what will your life be like?
Would you live to regret it?
Or is it possible that it would lead to a most fulfilling life in this system of things?
Well, to help answer those questions, we invite you to watch the following video, which
highlights comments from ones who, when they were young, made the decision to get involved
in Bethel work or theocratic construction work.
Watching this video could be like looking at your life in fast-forward.
If you choose the course that these ones chose, how would that turn out for you?
Let's watch.
My name is Pavel.
I serve at the Finland branch.
My name is Brad Berkwin.
I'm serving in the Congo.
My name is Gina Slay.
My name is Christopher Slay, and we serve in the Nigeria branch.
My name is Karen Ferro.
I live in Argentina.
I grew up in a sign language congregation because I have deaf parents.
And when I saw the sign language department for the first time, I was so impressed by it.
And so I developed my first love for Bethel's service.
As a young man, there's a lot of discussions with my father.
He wanted really what amounted to a normal life in this system.
I think the contrast for me was the joy of being a fellow worker with Jehovah in the
preaching work and just to feel that close friendship with him.
I drifted from my goal in serving Jehovah because I didn't have friends in the congregation.
I only had friends in school.
I said, Jehovah, I want to start serving you.
I want to give you my all, but tell me how.
Give me a kick.
The first step I took to be able to serve was when I was 18.
I filled out a form to make myself available.
There was a construction project in my circuit.
So with my older sister and two friends, we started to work there.
It was relatively near us, so we supported the whole project.
I would say getting closer to happy pioneers.
I realized I was in the truth.
They were in the truth, but they're happier than me.
So I started regular auxiliary pioneering, then regular pioneering.
In our congregation, there was a special pioneer couple.
Before that, they served at Bethel and therefore they had a lot of experience.
I asked them questions, so I want to serve in Bethel.
What do I need to do?
Tell me.
When I thought of Bethel, I knew single sisters were serving there.
When I became aware of the construction work,
I made myself available to increase my service.
Serving Jehovah as full as you can is not a matter of just drudgery
and sacrifices in this system.
It's actually the best way of life we can live right now.
Taste and see that Jehovah is good, that will not fail.
Be constantly active in serving Jehovah.
Sometimes it may seem that it's not much fun.
Perhaps it may seem boring.
But actually, serving Jehovah brings so much joy in many blessings.
At Genesis 48.15, they're at refers to Jehovah as being the true God
who has been shepherding me during all my life until this day.
Jacob realized that Jehovah had taken him to a spiritual place
that he would never have been able to go to on his own.
And I feel that Jehovah has done that with me.
Well, these friends are serving all over the globe, aren't they?
Some in their home branch territories, others in foreign assignments.
But how did they describe their life?
Was it drudgery and sacrifice and regret?
No, each one of them in one way or another said,
it is the best way of life that they could live.
And didn't you love what Karen said?
Jehovah can take you to a spiritual place
that you could never get to on your own.
Why do these ones find so much joy in their service?
Well, one reason is because they know they are filling a clear need
in Jehovah's work.
And in this way, they're working shoulder-to-shoulder with God and Christ
in a work that is important to them.
And that brings meaning to their life.
A second reason why they find so much joy
is highlighted for us in the book of Psalms.
I invite you to turn with me, please, to Psalm 145.
And let's read together Psalm 145 in verse two.
That verse says, all day long, I will praise you.
I will praise your name forever and ever.
In Bethel and theocratic construction assignments,
you have the opportunity to serve Jehovah all day, every day,
to praise Jehovah, to glorify him with all your strength.
So all day of every day of your life,
you are engaged in theocratic activities.
And that brings contentment and joy as well.
And did you notice how each one of them got started?
In many cases, it was someone else in the congregation
or in the circuit that encouraged them
to get involved in local projects, to turn in their application,
and then their journey just continued from there.
We young brothers and sisters, we want you
to be able to get involved in this exciting work
as early as possible.
And so I have an exciting announcement to read.
It reads this way.
We are pleased to inform you that the governing body
has decided to reduce the minimum age requirement
to enter Bethel service or to assist
with theocratic construction projects from 19 to 18 years of age.
It goes on, this adjustment is effective immediately.
Why the change?
Here are three reasons based on Bible principles.
Reason number one, Jehovah is blessing
his people with growth.
Paul stated in Colossians 1, 6, that the good news
is bearing fruit and increasing in all the world.
So it is also doing among you.
Today, we are thrilled to see how the good news
continues to bear fruit and how much growth is taking place.
We also see Jehovah's spirit at work in you young ones.
And we want to open up to you the opportunity
to enter special forms of service as soon as possible.
Reason number two, our current and future needs
require more young brothers to make themselves available
for expanded theocratic service.
Why?
Proverbs 2029 says that the glory of young men
is their strength.
There is a regular need for your help
to handle important assignments.
And reason number three, we want you to benefit as soon
as possible from additional theocratic training.
Paul said in Philippians 3.8, what is more,
I do indeed also consider all things to be lost
on account of the excelling value
of the knowledge of Christ Jesus, my Lord.
Our heartfelt desire is for as many of you young ones
as possible to experience the unique and special training
of excelling value that is available at Bethel
and on theocratic construction projects.
It will accelerate your training
in developing spiritual qualities,
equip you to handle more responsibility in the congregation
and to address needs at Bethel and in the field.
So young ones, we encourage you to prayerfully consider
whether you can make yourself available
to enjoy the special privilege of service.
And isn't that exciting?
So truly, young ones, we encourage you to take advantage
of this opportunity, glorified Jehovah by getting involved
in Bethel work and theocratic construction
as soon as possible.
Some of you, especially you sisters, might have noticed
that some of our comments were weighted more toward encouraging
the young brothers to apply.
And the reason for that is because of the need
we have for these brothers to take the lead
and direct the work as they grow and receive training.
But we would be a miss if we did not acknowledge the hard work
and self-sacrifice of the young sisters in the organization.
The fact is, you're doing it.
You're there, you are with us at Bethel,
you are fully involved in theocratic construction
around the world, many of you,
courageously accepting foreign assignments.
And we truly love you for your example
and your life of self-sacrifice.
And now a word to the parents.
We know that you parents, you love your children
and you want the very best future possible
for your young ones.
And so we encourage you set goals of full-time service
in front of your children and help them
to achieve these goals.
And will you miss them if they should be called to Bethel
or they go off on a kingdom hall assignment somewhere?
Of course you will.
But don't hold them back and insist that they stay home
with you for fear of missing them.
You may be depriving them of the most fulfilling life.
But rather, can you be like Hannah?
Turn with me please to 1 Samuel 1.
1 Samuel 1.28, Jehovah blessed Hannah with his son.
And what did she say?
What did she do?
1 Samuel 1.28, she says,
I in turn now lend him to Jehovah.
For all his days he is lent to Jehovah.
Can you lend your son or daughter to Jehovah?
Why do we say lend?
It's because Jehovah will give them back to you.
In the new world you will have an eternity
to spend with your family together in paradise.
But right now we have a work to do.
So we thank you for training your young ones
to take the lead in full time service.
Now a comment to our elders and circuit overseers.
What can you brothers do to help the young ones
on the path to serving Jehovah full time
in Bethel and in theocratic construction?
Well, are you encouraging Bethel service?
Are you helping the young ones to learn how to get involved
in local projects with their local design construction
department?
School counselors are charting a path for our young ones
in school.
Shouldn't we be doing the same?
To illustrate the impact that you brothers can have
on the lives of these young ones, a brother that
works with us at Warwick told us his experience.
And he said when he was a teenager,
he wanted to go to Bethel.
But he hesitated because he wasn't sure if he could do it.
And he didn't know if there really was a need.
But his circuit overseers saw his potential
and gave him a Bethel application and persisted
in encouraging him until he could see the need
and he turned in his application.
Well, now he's been serving for some years.
He's married now and he and his wife
were making a fantastic contribution.
But are there ones like that in your congregation,
in your circuit that may be just on the fence
and would benefit from some encouragement?
You can truly make a difference in how these young ones
use their lives.
And finally a comment to the current generation
who is carrying the load of oversight and Bethel
and in theocratic construction.
We thank you for your years of service
and to contemplate what Jehovah has been able to accomplish
with your help is just fantastic.
And now we thank you for training the next generation
so that the work can continue and Jehovah
can continue to get his work done.
Now we know that you desire to continue in the work.
You have a zeal for the work and to feel productive
and have accomplishment and feel valued.
Well, that's very much connected to our joy.
We understand that.
But as we get older, we know that there is a need
to train the next generation so Jehovah's work can continue.
And we know that you love Jehovah more than you do
your personal privileges.
And truly, we still want you involved.
The young ones need your experience and your advice.
And young ones are wise to recognize how much they can benefit
from your wisdom.
But we thank you for being ready to hand the job
to these ones and then help them to succeed.
Well, to conclude, we'd like to just mention one more prophecy
that we are seeing fulfilled before our eyes.
In this case, it's in the book of Psalms.
And we invite you to turn to the 110th Psalm.
Psalm 110 in verse three says this,
Your people will offer themselves willingly
on the day of your military force.
You have your company of young men just like do jobs.
Well, as we've discussed, Jehovah is speeding up the work.
And so therefore, there is a need for more workers.
Jehovah is willing to train you and entrust you.
And Jehovah's organization is making arrangements
for you to get involved as early as possible.
Well, this verse reassures us that you young ones will respond.
In fact, you are responding.
This verse is being fulfilled.
May you personally share in the fulfillment of this verse
by taking advantage of opportunities to glorify
Jehovah in Bethel and in theocratic construction.